---
title: The new CERN VAF
createtoc: true
---

The new CERN VAF (Virtual Analysis Facility) is up and running and ready to
replace the old CAF, which served us well for the last years.

The new VAF runs on resources provisioned through the
[CERN OpenStack](https://openstack.cern.ch) infrastructure.

The old CAF is no longer maintained, however it will still be available along
with the new CAF until the beginning of next week (June 15).

No support will be offered for it any longer, and the hardware will be written
off as of that date.

You can start using the new CERN VAF right away: please find the documentation 
[here](/alice/vcaf).

> The documentation contains an example analysis to get started.


### Main differences with the old CAF

Please note that the new CERN VAF does not have any local storage: instead,
data is accessed directly from the remote storages. In practice, **staging
requests are and will not be operative any longer**.

There is no need to set AliRoot and ROOT versions from within PROOF, and no need
to worry about matching AliRoot and ROOT versions: the **AliRoot or AliPhysics
version is specified in one place only**, and both your local client and PROOF
will use exactly the same binaries. The corresponding ROOT version is selected
automatically as a dependency.

You cannot connect to PROOF anymore from your local computer. Instead, a
working environment is provided through various login nodes, **accessible via
SSH**. This guarantees environment consistency, which used to be a source of
troubles with the old CAF.

This working environment uses **AFS for your home directory**: in practice, what
you find when logging in to lxplus is the same you will find on the VAF login
nodes. This implies that your analysis macros are kept in a safe place, and are
available from any login node immediately.


### Administrators

[The documentation](/alice/vcaf) contains extensive information for
administrators too. The setup is fully documented, although due to some features
(AFS, Kerberos) it only works from inside a CERN network.


### Support

**Please do not send emails for requesting support.** Direct your inquiries to
our [ALICE JIRA](https://alice.its.cern.ch/), on the **AAF** project.
